




This etext was produced by Normal Wolcott.





Ten Days that Shook the World

by John Reed




[Redactor's Note: This document uses the ISO 8891-1 Latin1 character
set (Windows). The book is composed of text, footnotes, and appendices.
The footnotes are included at the end of each chapter, while the
Appendix No. and Section are referred to in the text in parentheses,
the Appendices following the book text. Liberal use is made of italics,
and these have been indicated by bracketing italic text with the
underscore character "_".  Line length is 70-72 characters. A number of
graphics occur in the text, these are referred to by number as
"Graphic", etc. The Figures themselves are in a separate file. To
facilitate conversion to a word-processing format, an attempt has been
made to end each line with a space.

Graphics: There are 17 graphic figures in the text. These are indicated
by a reference to the page number in the original book. These figures
are available elsewhere (www.geocities.com/norm_90) where images of the
pages involved are available in tiff or pdf format. These are--
page 33 46      49      96      104     166     184     205
        224     227     251     254     276     279     281
        287     354

Epilogue: The original book of this text had a number of newspaper
clipings from the 1920's and 1930's included. Most of these relate to
the violent deaths encountered by those playing a part in this book.
Others reveal that Eisenstein made a film of "Ten Days". Stalin, who is
not mentioned in the book, suppressed the work. Louise Bryant,
mentioned in the text, was married to John Reed, and after his death
married William Bullitt in 1923 (divorced 1930) and died in Paris in
1936 at age 41. Mr. Bullitt was the first ambassador to Russia in the
Roosevelt administration, and later to France. Harvard University
accepted a commissioned portrait of Reed in 1935 from a group of his
classmates and hung it in Adams House, site of the boarding house where
Reed lived at Harvard. ]
